Managing your Connections in Airflow - Guide update (#423)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/connections.md

The fields on the lefthand side will change depending on which 'Connection Type' you select.

> **Note**: If the connection type you are looking for is not available in the dropdown menu, make sure you correctly installed the relevant provider.  

For most connections it is not necessary to specify all fields. The example below shows a connection made to an Amazon S3 bucket using the AWS access key ID as `login` an the AWS secret access key as `password` ([See AWS documentation for how to retrieve your AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/userguide/pstools-appendix-sign-up.html)).

![Example AWS S3 connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/AWSS3connection.png)

Some connection types offer the possibility to test the connection from the Airflow UI. A message either confirming a successful connection or providing an error message will appear on top of the screen after running a connection test.

> **Note**: Passwords are treated as a secret by Airflow and will be hidden from the user after saving the connection.

> ## Define connections via environment variables

Reviewer: Somewhere in one of these examples I think we should highlight how to use the `extras` field for connection params that aren't in the form. And how those values are obfuscated (or not) depending on their name. There's an Airflow env var you can modify to treat certain words/phrases as secret, that I can't remember the name of off the top of my head...

- In that function query the `session` object for any `Connection` objects and filters for connections with the `conn_id` `my_database_connection` and use the `one_or_none()` method on the query to extract the search results. The last line of the function prints the `host` information from this result.
- Provide the function to a PythonOperator in order to run it within a DAG.

```Python
from airflow import DAG
from datetime import datetime
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
from airflow.utils.db import provide_session
from airflow.models import Connection

CONN_ID = "my_database_connection"

@provide_session
def print_conn_host(conn_id=None, session=None):
    conn_query = session.query(Connection).filter(
        Connection.conn_id == conn_id,)

    conn_query_result = conn_query.one_or_none()

    print(conn_query_result.host)

with DAG(
    dag_id="print_host_from_connection_id_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022, 8, 1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    print_result = PythonOperator(
        task_id="print_result",
        python_callable=print_conn_host,
        op_kwargs={"conn_id": CONN_ID}
    )
```

> Knowing that connection information is programmatically accessible it is possible to build functions which are able to modify connection information. A possible use case is to synchronize information with an external secrets manager.

Author: Yeah, that does make sense, it would be odd to have to do this whenever using a secrets backend. I asked about it on slack and the use case seems to be for migrating larger amounts of connection information. (I cc'ed you on the thread). I adjusted the example and made the section a lot shorter. 

The question is if we want this to be here at all? It is a bit of a niche use case but maybe useful for some people (I found one question on stackoverflow from 3 years ago on this 😅 )

tags: ["Connections", "Basics", "Hooks", "Operators"]
---

Connections in Airflow are sets of configurations used to connect with other tools in the data ecosystem. They are required by most hooks and operators, and can be created and modified in different ways.

In this guide we will cover:

- The basics of Airflow connections.
- How to define connections using the Airflow UI.
- How to define connections using environment variables.
- An example showing a Snowflake connection and a Slack Webhook connection being used in a DAG.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

- What Airflow is and when to use it. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/intro-to-airflow/).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-an-operator).
- Airflow hooks. See [Hooks 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-a-hook/).

> ## Airflow connection essentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Airflow connection basics
```

Updating to be consistent with bullet in the overview

> A connection in Airflow is a set of configurations containing the information necessary to send requests to the API of an external tool. The information a connection needs to contain will vary based on which tool you are connecting to. In most cases a connection necessitates login credentials or a private key in order to authenticate Airflow to the external tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A connection in Airflow is a set of configurations containing the information necessary to send requests to the API of an external tool. The information contained in a connection will vary based on the requirements of the external tool. In most cases, a connection will require login credentials or a private key in order to authenticate Airflow to the external tool.
```

> Airflow connections can be defined in multiple ways, using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow connections can be created by using one of the following methods:
```

> - **The Airflow UI**: The most straightforward way to add connections directly from the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Airflow UI
```
I think these are self explanatory enough that we can leave off the descriptions.

> - **The Airflow UI**: The most straightforward way to add connections directly from the UI.

Reviewer: Are there relevant links to add to these others, like you do for the REST API?

> - **Environment variables**: Add connections that are completely hidden from the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Environment variables
```

> - **The [Airflow REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#tag/Connection)**: Add a connection using an API call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Airflow REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#tag/Connection)
```

> - **A secrets backend**: Integrate Airflow with a secrets backend solution that can store credentials and sensitive values to be used by Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A secrets backend (a system for managing secrets external to Airflow)
```

> - The `airflow.cfg` file: Add connections by modifying a configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `airflow.cfg` file
```

> - The Airflow CLI: Add connections by running a CLI command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Airflow CLI
```

> In this guide we will cover adding connections using the Airflow UI and environment variables. For more in-depth information on configuring connections in other ways see the REST API documentation, as well as ['Managing Connections'](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) and ['Secrets Backend'](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html) in the Airflow documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we will show how to add connections using the Airflow UI and environment variables methods. For more in-depth information on configuring connections using the other methods, see the REST API documentation, as well as ['Managing Connections'](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) and ['Secrets Backend'](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html) in the Airflow documentation.

Each connection is associated with a unique `conn_id`, which can be provided to operators and hooks requiring a connection.
```

> To discover which information to provide to which field you can search for the relevant provider in the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/) and click on the `Docs` button to find documentation on a specific provider. Most common providers will have documentation on each of their associated `Connection types`. For example, you can find information on how to set up different connections to Azure on the [Connection Types page of the Azure provider](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, Airflow [hooks](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-a-hook/) use connections to authenticate to external systems in order to send API requests. Most hooks that require connections are part of provider packages.

There are a couple of ways you can find what information needs to be provided for a particular connection type:

- Search for the relevant provider in the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/), and click on the `Docs` button to find documentation for provider. Most commonly used providers will have documentation on each of their associated `Connection types`. For example, you can find information on how to set up different connections to Azure on the [Connection Types page of the Azure provider](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/index.html).
- Check the documentation of the external tool you are connecting to and see if it offers guidance on how to authenticate.
- Refer to the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.
```

Author: Ahhh I missed a list opportunity 😅

> > **Note**: If you cannot find the relevant information in the Apache Airflow documentation on the external tool you are trying to connect to, see if the documentation of the external tool offers guidance on how to authenticate to it or refer to the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Under the hood, Airflow [hooks](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-a-hook/) use connections to authenticate to external systems in order to send API requests. Most hooks that require connections are part of provider packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For example, the `S3Hook`, which is part of the [Amazon provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/amazon), requires a connection of the type `Amazon S3`.

Reviewer: Can we add a sentence here after that describes whcih method above you would use to find the S3 conn info needed?

> Each connection is associated with a unique `conn_id`, which can be provided to operators and hooks requiring a connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reorg'ed the paragraphs in this section a bit. If you don't agree with anything flow-wise let me know and we can look again :)

## Define connections in the UI

> The most common way of defining a connection is using the Airflow UI. Click on the **Admin** in the navigation bar and select **Connections**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common way of defining a connection is using the Airflow UI. Click on the **Admin** tab in the navigation bar and select **Connections**.
```

![Connections seen from the DAG view](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/DAGview_connections.png)

The list of connections will be empty in a new Airflow instance. Click the blue `+` button to add a new connection.

![Empty Connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/EmptyConnection.png)

The fields on the lefthand side may change depending on which 'Connection Type' you select.

> **Note**: Specific connection types will only be available in the dropdown menu if the relevant provider is installed in your Airflow environment.  

> For most connections it is not necessary to specify all fields. The example below shows a connection made to an Amazon S3 bucket using the AWS access key ID as `login` and the AWS secret access key as `password` ([See AWS documentation for how to retrieve your AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/userguide/pstools-appendix-sign-up.html)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most connections it is not necessary to specify all fields. The example below shows a connection made to an Amazon S3 bucket using the AWS access key ID as `login` and the AWS secret access key as `password` (See the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/userguide/pstools-appendix-sign-up.html) for how to retrieve your AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key).
```

![Example AWS S3 connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/AWSS3connection.png)

> It is possible to pass additional configuration parameters to a connection by providing them to the `Extra` field as a JSON. For example it would be possible to add the [ARN of a role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) to assume when logging into AWS by entering `{"role_arn":"arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my_role_name"}` in the `Extra` field. To learn about additional parameters for a specific connection type please refer to the documentation of the relevant provider package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any required parameters that do not have specific fields in the connection form can be provided to the `Extra` field as a JSON dictionary. For example, you can add the [ARN of a role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) to assume when logging into AWS by entering `{"role_arn":"arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my_role_name"}` in the `Extra` field. To learn more about additional parameters for a specific connection type, refer to the documentation of the relevant provider package.
```

> In Airflow version 2.2+ some connection types offer the possibility to test the connection from the Airflow UI. A message either confirming a successful connection or providing an error message will appear on top of the screen after running a connection test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Airflow version 2.2+, you can test some connection types from the Airflow UI with the `Test` button. After running a connection test, a message will appear on the top of the screen either confirming a successful connection or providing an error message.
```

### Masking sensitive information

> Connections often contain sensitive credentials. By default Airflow will hide the connection password, both in the UI and in the Airflow logs. Values from the Connection's `Extra` field will also be hidden if their key contains any of the words listed in the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_NAMES`, as long as `AIRFLOW__CORE__HIDE_SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_FIELDS` is set to `True`. You can find more information on masking including a list of the default values of this environment variable in the Airflow documentation on [Masking sensitive data](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/mask-sensitive-values.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections often contain sensitive credentials. By default, Airflow will hide the connection password, both in the UI and in the Airflow logs. Values from the connection's `Extra` field will also be hidden if their key contains any of the words listed in the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_NAMES`, as long as `AIRFLOW__CORE__HIDE_SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_FIELDS` is set to `True`. You can find more information on masking, including a list of the default values in this environment variable, in the Airflow documentation on [Masking sensitive data](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/mask-sensitive-values.html).
```

Reviewer: This section looks great! I'm wondering if we should make it a high level section, since it isn't specifically related to UI connections...Maybe after the env var section, before the example?

## Define connections via environment variables

Connections can also be defined using environment variables. Astro CLI users can use the `.env` file for local development, or specify environment variables in the Dockerfile.

> > **Note**: If you are synchronizing your project using a public remote repository, make sure not to save sensitive information in the Dockerfile. In this case using either a secrets backend, Airflow connections defined in the UI or `.env` locally is preferred as to not expose secrets in plain text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: If you are synchronizing your project to a remote repository, don't save sensitive information in your Dockerfile. In this case, using either a secrets backend, Airflow connections defined in the UI, or `.env` locally are preferred so as to not expose secrets in plain text.
```

The environment variable used for the connection needs to be in the form of `AIRFLOW_CONN_YOURCONNID` and can be provided either in URI or, starting with Airflow 2.3, in JSON format.

> URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) is a format designed to contain all necessary connection information in one string, starting with the connection type followed by login, password and host. In many cases a specific port and schema, as well as additional parameters will be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) is a format designed to contain all necessary connection information in one string, starting with the connection type, followed by login, password and host. In many cases a specific port, schema, and additional parameters will be added.
```

I actually didn't know what URI stood for :) Is there a link to some general URI doc that would be helpful here?

Author: The wikipedia page is actually pretty good. They link to some in depth resources that are very in depth. Other higher level explanations I found are all on corporate sites. So I would vote to use the wiki link? :)

```Dockerfile

# the general format of a URI connection
ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2'

# an example of a connection to snowflake defined as a URI
ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_snowflake_conn='snowflake://LOGIN:PASSWORD@/?account=xy12345&region=eu-central-1'

```

> In Airflow 2.3+, connections can alternatively be provided as a JSON (in this example defined from `.env`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Airflow 2.3+, connections can alternatively be provided as a JSON dictionary (in this example defined in `.env`).
```

I think the noun version of JSON would be "a JSON dictionary", but worth confirming....just "a JSON" sounds odd to me, but maybe I just haven't seen it written that way before...

Author: I think you are right. I have been calling it "a JSON" in my head but I might be the only one 😅

```text
AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='{
    "conn_type": "my-conn-type",
    "login": "my-login",
    "password": "my-password",
    "host": "my-host",
    "port": 1234,
    "schema": "my-schema",
    "extra": {
        "param1": "val1",
        "param2": "val2"
    }
}'
```

> Note that connections that are defined using environment variables will not show up in the list of connections in the Airflow UI and which parameters to specify can very for different connection types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that connections that are defined using environment variables will not show up in the list of connections in the Airflow UI.
```
I think we've already covered the second part of that sentence above.

## Example: Configuring the SnowflakeToSlackOperator

> In this example, we will configure the `SnowflakeToSlackOperator`, which requires connections to Snowflake and Slack. We will define the connections using the Airflow UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we configure the `SnowflakeToSlackOperator`, which requires connections to Snowflake and Slack. We define the connections using the Airflow UI.
```

Before starting Airflow, we need to install both the [Snowflake](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake) and the [Slack provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/slack). Astro CLI users can add them to `requirements.txt`:

```text
apache-airflow-providers-snowflake
apache-airflow-providers-slack
```

> In the Airflow UI, we can navigate to the list of connections and add a connection of the 'Connection Type' `Snowflake`. The following parameters are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Airflow UI, we navigate to the list of connections and add a connection of the 'Connection Type' `Snowflake`. The following parameters are required:
```

- Login: Your Snowflake login name.
- Password: Your Snowflake login password.

You can leave the other fields empty. Test the connection by clicking on the `Test` button.

The screenshot below shows the confirmation that the connection to Snowflake was successful.

![Successful Connection to Snowflake](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/SuccessfulSnowflakeConn.png)

Next we set up a connection to Slack. To post a message to a Slack channel, you will need to create a Slack app for your server and configure incoming webhooks. A step-by-step explanation of this process can be found in the [Slack Documentation](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks).

To connect to Slack from Airflow, you only have to provide a few parameters:

- Connection Id: `slack_conn` (or another string that has not been used for a different connection already)
- Connection Type: `Slack Webhook`
- Host: `https://hooks.slack.com.services` (the first part of the Webhook URL)
- Password: The second part of the Webhook URL. It will have the format `T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`

Test the connection by clicking on the `Test` button.

> The last step is writing the DAG using the `SnowflakeToSlackOperator` to run a SQL query on a Snowflake table and post the result as a message to a Slack channel. The `SnowflakeToSlackOperator` needs both, the connection id pointing towards the snowflake connection `snowflake_conn_id` and the connection id for the Slack connection `slack_conn_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is writing the DAG using the `SnowflakeToSlackOperator` to run a SQL query on a Snowflake table and post the result as a message to a Slack channel. The `SnowflakeToSlackOperator` requires both the connection id for the Snowflake connection (`snowflake_conn_id`) and the connection id for the Slack connection (`slack_conn_id`).
```

To standardize connections, Airflow includes many different **connection types** for connecting to specific types of systems. There are general connection types for connecting to large clouds, such as `aws_default` and `gcp_default`, as well as connection types for specific services like `azure_service_bus_default`.

Each connection type requires different configurations and values based on the service it's connecting to. There are a couple of ways find the information you need to provide for a particular connection type:

- Open the relevant provider's page in the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/) and go to the **Docs** tab to access the Apache Airflow documentation for the provider. Most commonly used providers will have documentation on each of their associated connection types. For example, you can find information on how to set up different connections to Azure on the [Azure provider docs](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/microsoft-azure).
- Check the documentation of the external tool you are connecting to and see if it offers guidance on how to authenticate.
- Refer to the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.

> ## Define connections in the UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Defining connections in the UI
```

The most common way of defining a connection is using the Airflow UI. Go to **Admin** > **Connections** to access the **Connections** page.

> ![Connections seen from the DAG view](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/DAGview_connections.png)

Reviewer 2: Sorry this is super nitpicky but can we crop this screenshot so that we don't have all of the empty space at the bottom? It will help readers focus on the menu element

Author: Good idea, thanks! :)

Airflow doesn't include any configured connections by default. To create a new connection, click the blue **+** button.

![Empty Connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/EmptyConnection.png)

As you update the **Connection Type** field, notice how the other available fields change. Each connection type requires different kinds of information.

> **Note**: Specific connection types will only be available in the dropdown menu if the relevant provider is installed in your Airflow environment.  

> You don't have to specify every field on most connections. However, the values marked as required in the Airflow UI can be misleading. For example to set up a connection to a PostgreSQL database, we need to reference the [PostgreSQL provider documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-postgres/stable/connections/postgres.html) to learn that the connection requires a `Host`, a user name as `login` and a password in the `password` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't have to specify every field on most connections. However, the values marked as required in the Airflow UI can be misleading. For example to set up a connection to a PostgreSQL database, we need to reference the [PostgreSQL provider documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-postgres/stable/connections/postgres.html) to learn that the connection requires a `Host`, a user name as `login`, and a password in the `password` field.
```

![Example PostgreSQL connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/PostgreSQLconnection.png)

> Any parameters that do not have specific fields in the connection form can be provided to the **Extra** field as a JSON dictionary. For example, you can add the `sslmode` or a client `sslkey` in the **Extra** field of your PostgreSQL connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any parameters that don't have specific fields in the connection form can be defined in the **Extra** field as a JSON dictionary. For example, you can add the `sslmode` or a client `sslkey` in the **Extra** field of your PostgreSQL connection.
```

Starting in Airflow 2.2, you can test some connection types from the Airflow UI with the **Test** button. After running a connection test, a message appears on the top of the screen showing either a success confirmation or an error message.

> ## Define connections via environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Defining connections with environment variables
```

The environment variable used for the connection must be formatted as `AIRFLOW_CONN_YOURCONNID` and can be provided either as a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) or, starting in Airflow 2.3, in JSON.

[URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) is a format designed to contain all necessary connection information in one string, starting with the connection type, followed by login, password and host. In many cases a specific port, schema, and additional parameters must be added.

```Dockerfile

# the general format of a URI connection that is defined in your Dockerfile
ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2'

# an example of a connection to snowflake defined as a URI
ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_snowflake_conn='snowflake://LOGIN:PASSWORD@/?account=xy12345&region=eu-central-1'

```

In Airflow 2.3+, connections can be provided to an environment variable as a JSON dictionary:

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

# example of a connection defined as a JSON file in your `.env` file
AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='{
    "conn_type": "my-conn-type",
    "login": "my-login",
    "password": "my-password",
    "host": "my-host",
    "port": 1234,
    "schema": "my-schema",
    "extra": {
        "param1": "val1",
        "param2": "val2"
    }
}'
```

Note that connections that are defined using environment variables do not appear in the Airflow UI's list of available connections.

> ## Masking sensitive information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Masking sensitive information
```

- Check the documentation of the external tool you are connecting to and see if it offers guidance on how to authenticate.
- Refer to the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.

For example, the `S3Hook`, which is part of the [Amazon provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/amazon), requires a connection of the type `Amazon S3`.

## Define connections in the UI

The most common way of defining a connection is using the Airflow UI. Click on the **Admin** tab in the navigation bar and select **Connections**.

![Connections seen from the DAG view](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/DAGview_connections.png)

The list of connections will be empty in a new Airflow instance. Click the blue `+` button to add a new connection.

![Empty Connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/EmptyConnection.png)

The fields on the lefthand side may change depending on which 'Connection Type' you select.

> **Note**: Specific connection types will only be available in the dropdown menu if the relevant provider is installed in your Airflow environment.  

> For most connections it is not necessary to specify all fields. The example below shows a connection made to an Amazon S3 bucket. Referencing the [Airflow AWS provider documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/connections/aws.html) you can learn that the mandatory information needed to create this connection are the AWS access key ID as `login` and the AWS secret access key as `password` (See the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/userguide/pstools-appendix-sign-up.html) for how to retrieve your AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't have to specify every field on most connections. However, the values marked as required in the Airflow UI can be misleading. For example, the following example is a connection for an Amazon S3 bucket. We need to reference the [Airflow AWS provider documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/connections/aws.html) to learn that the connection requires the AWS access key ID as `login` and the AWS secret access key as `password`.
```
This doesn't seem quite right to me.. when you go to the docs it shows both of those values as "Optional" because you can leave them blank for an IAM role. Is there a better connection type that we can use for this example?

![Example AWS S3 connection](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/AWSS3connection.png)

> Any required parameters that do not have specific fields in the connection form can be provided to the `Extra` field as a JSON dictionary. For example, you can add the [ARN of a role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) to assume when logging into AWS by entering `{"role_arn":"arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my_role_name"}` in the `Extra` field. To learn more about additional parameters for a specific connection type, refer to the documentation of the relevant provider package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any required parameters that do not have specific fields in the connection form can be provided to the **Extra** field as a JSON dictionary. For example, you can add the [ARN of a role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) to assume when logging into AWS by specifying `{"role_arn":"arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my_role_name"}` in the **Extra** field.
```
I always use **bold** styling for UI elements and `code` styling for user inputs.

> In Airflow version 2.2+, you can test some connection types from the Airflow UI with the `Test` button. After running a connection test, a message will appear on the top of the screen either confirming a successful connection or providing an error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting in Airflow 2.2, you can test some connection types from the Airflow UI with the **Test** button. After running a connection test, a message appears on the top of the screen showing either a success confirmation or an error message.
```

## Define connections via environment variables

> Connections can also be defined using environment variables. Astro CLI users can use the `.env` file for local development, or specify environment variables in the Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connections can also be defined using environment variables. If you use the Astro CLI, you use the `.env` file for local development or specify environment variables in your project's Dockerfile.
```

> **Note**: If you are synchronizing your project to a remote repository, don't save sensitive information in your Dockerfile. In this case, using either a secrets backend, Airflow connections defined in the UI, or `.env` locally are preferred so as to not expose secrets in plain text.

> The environment variable used for the connection needs to be in the form of `AIRFLOW_CONN_YOURCONNID` and can be provided either in URI or, starting with Airflow 2.3, in JSON format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The environment variable used for the connection must be formatted as `AIRFLOW_CONN_YOURCONNID` and can be provided either as a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) or, starting in Airflow 2.3, in JSON.
```

> [URI (Uniform Resource Identifier)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) is a format designed to contain all necessary connection information in one string, starting with the connection type, followed by login, password and host. In many cases a specific port, schema, and additional parameters will be added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) is a format designed to contain all necessary connection information in one string, starting with the connection type, followed by login, password and host. In many cases a specific port, schema, and additional parameters must be added.
```

```Dockerfile

> # the general format of a URI connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# the general format of a URI connection that is defined in your Dockerfile
```

ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2'

# an example of a connection to snowflake defined as a URI
ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_snowflake_conn='snowflake://LOGIN:PASSWORD@/?account=xy12345&region=eu-central-1'

```

> In Airflow 2.3+, connections can alternatively be provided as a JSON dictionary (in this example defined in `.env`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Airflow 2.3+, connections can be provided to an environment variable as a JSON dictionary:
```

> ```text
> AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
# example of a connection defined as a JSON file in your `.env` file
AIRFLOW_CONN_MYCONNID='{
```

    "conn_type": "my-conn-type",
    "login": "my-login",
    "password": "my-password",
    "host": "my-host",
    "port": 1234,
    "schema": "my-schema",
    "extra": {
        "param1": "val1",
        "param2": "val2"
    }
}'
```

> Note that connections that are defined using environment variables will not show up in the list of connections in the Airflow UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that connections that are defined using environment variables do not appear in the Airflow UI's list of available connections.
```

## Masking sensitive information

> Connections often contain sensitive credentials. By default, Airflow will hide the connection password, both in the UI and in the Airflow logs. Values from the connection's `Extra` field will also be hidden if their key contains any of the words listed in the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_NAMES`, as long as `AIRFLOW__CORE__HIDE_SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_FIELDS` is set to `True`. You can find more information on masking, including a list of the default values in this environment variable, in the Airflow documentation on [Masking sensitive data](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/mask-sensitive-values.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connections often contain sensitive credentials. By default, Airflow hides the `password` field, both in the UI and in the Airflow logs. If `AIRFLOW__CORE__HIDE_SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_FIELDS` is set to `True`, values from the connection's `Extra` field are also hidden if their keys contain any of the words listed in  `AIRFLOW__CORE__SENSITIVE_VAR_CONN_NAMES`. You can find more information on masking, including a list of the default values in this environment variable, in the Airflow documentation on [Masking sensitive data](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/mask-sensitive-values.html).
```

## Example: Configuring the SnowflakeToSlackOperator

In this example, we configure the `SnowflakeToSlackOperator`, which requires connections to Snowflake and Slack. We define the connections using the Airflow UI.

> Before starting Airflow, we need to install both the [Snowflake](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake) and the [Slack provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/slack). Astro CLI users can add them to `requirements.txt`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before starting Airflow, we need to install both the [Snowflake](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake) and the [Slack provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/slack). If you use the Astro CLI, you can can add install the packages by adding the following lines to your Astro project's `requirements.txt` file:
```

```text
apache-airflow-providers-snowflake
apache-airflow-providers-slack
```

> In the Airflow UI, we navigate to the list of connections and add a connection of the 'Connection Type' `Snowflake`. The following parameters are required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the Airflow UI and create a new connection. Set the **Connection Type** to `Snowflake`. This connection type requires the following parameters:
```

> - Connection Id: `snowflake_conn` (or another string that has not been used for a different connection already)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Connection Id: `snowflake_conn` or any other string that is not already in use by an existing connection
```

- Connection Type: `Snowflake`

> - Account: Your Snowflake account in the format xy12345.region

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Account: Your Snowflake account in the format `xy12345.region`
```

- Login: Your Snowflake login name.
- Password: Your Snowflake login password.

You can leave the other fields empty. Test the connection by clicking on the `Test` button.

The screenshot below shows the confirmation that the connection to Snowflake was successful.

![Successful Connection to Snowflake](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/connections/SuccessfulSnowflakeConn.png)

> Next we set up a connection to Slack. To post a message to a Slack channel, you will need to create a Slack app for your server and configure incoming webhooks. A step-by-step explanation of this process can be found in the [Slack Documentation](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next we set up a connection to Slack. To post a message to a Slack channel, you need to create a Slack app for your server and configure incoming webhooks. See the [Slack Documentation](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) for setup steps.
```

To connect to Slack from Airflow, you only have to provide a few parameters:

- Connection Id: `slack_conn` (or another string that has not been used for a different connection already)
- Connection Type: `Slack Webhook`

> - Host: `https://hooks.slack.com.services` (the first part of the Webhook URL)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Host: `https://hooks.slack.com.services`, or the the first part of your Webhook URL
```

> - Password: The second part of the Webhook URL. It will have the format `T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Password: The second part of your Webhook URL in the format `T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`
```

tags: ["Connections", "Basics", "Hooks", "Operators"]
---

Connections in Airflow are sets of configurations used to connect with other tools in the data ecosystem. They are required by most hooks and operators, and can be created and modified in different ways.

In this guide we will cover:

- The basics of Airflow connections.
- How to define connections using the Airflow UI.
- How to define connections using environment variables.
- An example showing a Snowflake connection and a Slack Webhook connection being used in a DAG.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

- What Airflow is and when to use it. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/intro-to-airflow/).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-an-operator).
- Airflow hooks. See [Hooks 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-a-hook/).

## Airflow connection basics

> A connection in Airflow is a set of configurations containing the information necessary to send requests to the API of an external tool. The information contained in a connection will vary based on the requirements of the external tool. In most cases, a connection will require login credentials or a private key in order to authenticate Airflow to the external tool.

Author: We have 3 sentences here ending in "external tool" but I am also hesitant to use a synonym like "other software" because it could be confusing. Happily taking suggestions of how to make this less repetitive. 🙂

Reviewer: Hmm, yes good point. Maybe the middle sentence isn't actually necessary and we can remove it? I don't think it's adding much now that I read the whole thing.
